Hey welcome back.
So we've learned a lot in your syntax.
You know dictionary methods dictionaries we're going to continue on with some heavier stuff after this
video when we talk about dictionary comprehension.
But for now we're going to take a quick detour to talk about data modeling using lists and dictionaries
together.
So we haven't really seen putting them together yet.
Well we're going to do is model a playlist.
So here's an example playlist from Spotify.
But it could be you know any playlists from your iTunes account or from whatever you use.
The key idea that a playlist has a title.
I think this one is from when I was trapped in a really long bus ride between Argentina and Chile.
There there's an author.
And then there's a list of songs and each song has the title.
It has an artist or multiple artists so that's important.
And like in this case this is a remix and there's two credited artists.
Then there's the album and the date it was added to the play list which we don't have to model that
and that duration.
And then on top of that there's an order to the actual songs and that's important.
Right.
A lot of people spend time ordering their play lists.
I did not in this one but a lot of people labor over that.
So we want to make sure that there is an order.
So how would we actually model this in a single variable.
And if you want to try it on your own don't worry about actually replicating off the songs and some
of them are pretty long names and remixes and all of that.
You could just put you know dummy data whatever you want just try modeling one or two songs in a playlist
just so we have a feel for how this would actually function.
So if you want to try just making a variable call it play list set it equal to something that contains
all of this information.
Then go ahead and give it a shot or I'll do it right now.
OK so I'm going to hop over here and make a file called playlist P Y and I'll start off by just making
a variable called playlist.
And here's what we have to consider.
What is our top level data structure.
We're going to use.
So it needs to be a data structure.
We're not going to put everything in a string.
We're not going to use a number that don't work.
We need to use either a list or a dictionary.
You might think a list would be best because this is a list of songs right.
But the problem is we also need to store information like the name of the play list and the author.
So because of that I'm going to make the entire thing a dictionary so I'll have title Patagonia boss
author or creator.
Cold steel and then I'll have a key called maybe contents or songs songs.
It's probably better and that will be a list.
So it might look something like this where we would have title we need quotes and title might be what
they call it Patagonia bus off of such a miserable bus ride.
And then we would have Arthur and set that too cold steel or whoever.
And then there would be songs which is actually equal to a list and for formatting purposes Let's denote
these just like this.
There we go.
Well let's just test it out.
So ideally we won't see anything.
OK.
We don't see anything good.
So then instead of hear each song we need to store a couple of pieces of information.
What do we care about.
We need a title we need to call this artist or artists we need.
And the album name.
And then the duration and all of those are actually going to be keys inside of a dictionary.
So each song itself is a dictionary instead of a list and the order there in the list will dictate the
order that they're in the play list.
The first thing in our list will be this song and the only other nuance is that artist itself needs
to store more than one artist.
So a single string won't work like it might for a title or for an album name.
What we're going to need to use is a list.
So let's try that.
So end this as well.
And then each song is going to be a dictionary.
So each one has a title and I'll just put fake data in here so I'll just call it a song title or let's
just go with the song one.
And then we have artists and actually Betteridge called artists because most of the time there's only
one.
And then we'll have a list and we'll just go with.
Let's just say to my cats.
And then after that we had let's just do duration and that could be a number.
How would we model a song duration.
Well we could just do a number like a float like this.
Well that would be a very long song maybe like two point five for two minutes 30 seconds or we could
do a string or once we talked about dates and times we could worry about that for now let's just do
a flip and then we have a whole other song I'll just duplicate this and call this one song to an artist
this time we'll have to maybe it's a remix.
So there's the original which was by Kitty and the second one which was by D.J. cat which is three mixer
and duration.
It's a remix.
It's a lot longer.
Five point.
I don't know 25.
OK.
So you can see now where we're going with this.
Let me just add one more.
We have another piece of data in here and this one will be called meow meow.
Sure.
And this one is by Garfield and it is two minutes.
Exactly.
OK.
So we have three songs.
There's an order to our playlist.
There's an author to the post and the titles of the playlist.
So we have a dictionary with keys and values.
The song's key is another list and those lists each item in the list is another dictionary and the artist
property the key in the dictionary is a corresponding list.
So we have a lot of nested data so let's just check for syntax errors.
We need to add a comma here and now run it.
There's no syntax errors call.
So let's say I just want to do something like total up the duration so I could figure out how long this
entire playlist is what the entire play time is.
So we could do something like playlist and it's a dictionary so we need to iterate over which part Well
we really only care about the songs.
So that's play list songs right.
And that gives us a list so we can do for a song in play list songs and we can start by just printing
the song title or something.
Print song title let's see what happens now.
Song one song to your meal.
OK.
But rather than title what we really want is the duration.
So it could just print the duration or we could sum them together.
And the easiest way to do that with what we know now is to make a variable and we could just call it
total length set it to 0 and then just do total length plus equals and I'll just do song duration and
at the end let's just do print total length
9.7 five.
And again we're not really worrying about how restoring time at this point.
There's better ways of storing dates and times but for now nine point seventy five is the total of all
the things all the songs in our playlist and that's one way of finding that information out.
Okay.
I'll leave this at that.
I just want to show you a more real world example of how we would actually store data and if we actually
got this data back from the Spotify API which when we talk that API will get very similar data back.
It's almost always a bunch of nested dictionaries with lists inside of them and other dictionaries and
then list inside of those.
And it keeps going.
And often it's more complex than this.
I mean you can imagine Spotify has a lot more data for each song.
Even something like genre if you wanted to add genre to this almost every song and Spotify outwardly
has more than one genre but then internally they classify each song probably in 100 different ways about
how upbeat its lyrics are.
You know it's good for a rainy day.
You know what ppm is the tempo.
All these different things that they're actually storing.
So there's a lot of properties anyway.
So that's a quick little break from talking about a bunch of more difficult dictionary topics.
We're moving on now after this to dictionary comprehension.
So I don't know.
Get ready to do some stretches.
Drink some coffee.
See you soon.